Readme.md, before:


# NeoLoad Web dynamic infrastructure agent

## Introduction

This Helm chart enables performance engineers to automatically deploy load testing infrastructure on a Kubernetes cluster through NeoLoad Web.
It provisions the required user credentials and deploys an agent that connects your cluster to NeoLoad Web's Dynamic Infrastructure feature.

For a complete overview of all resources created in your cluster, see the [Details](#details) section.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Two versions of this chart are available:
>
> - **v1.x (Latest)** — Deploys an agent that communicates with NeoLoad Web. This version is more secure as it uses outbound-only connections. **Recommended for environments with strict security requirements.**
> - **v0.x** — Requires direct inbound API access to the cluster from NeoLoad Web. A simpler setup that works well when inbound access is acceptable. To migrate from v0.x to v1.x, see the [Migration guide](doc/MIGRATION_GUIDE_V0_TO_V1.md). To install v0.x, see the [v0.x Readme](https://github.com/Neotys-Labs/helm-dynamic-infrastructure/blob/stable/v0_x/Readme.md).

## Prerequisites

- A running [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster (1.9.0 - 1.30.0)
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) CLI  (3.2+)


## Installation

### 1. Add the NeoLoad chart repository or update it if you already had it registered

```bash		
helm repo add NeoLoad https://helm.prod.neotys.com/stable/
```

```bash		
helm repo update
```

### 2. Download and set up your **[values-custom.yaml](/values-custom.yaml)** file

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Neotys-Labs/helm-dynamic-infrastructure/master/values-custom.yaml
``` 
Refer to the [Configuration](#Configuration) section for configuration options.

### 3. Install

```bash		
helm install my-release NeoLoad/nlweb-dynamic-infrastructure --create-namespace -n my-namespace -f ./values-custom.yaml --set agent.neoloadWebApiToken=YOUR_NEOLOAD_WEB_LONG_TERM_TOKEN
```

## Uninstall

To uninstall the `my-release` deployment:

```bash
$ helm uninstall my-release -n my-namespace
```

## Configuration

Update `values-custom.yaml` file according to your needs.

### Agent configuration

| Parameter                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Default                                                     | Required |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|:--------:|
| `agent.neoloadWebApiToken` | NeoLoad Web long-term token.<br/>Recommended to set this sensitive information with commandline `--set agent.neoloadWebApiToken=TOKEN`                                                                                                           |                                                             |    ✅     |
| `agent.neoloadWebApiUrl`   | The URL to NeoLoad Web API (API V3, not API V4).<br/>By default SaaS US URL is provided; verify that it matches your NeoLoad Web environment and override it if your instance uses a different endpoint.                                         | https://neoload-api.saas.neotys.com                         |          |
| `agent.isOpenShiftCluster` | Set to `true` if current cluster is OpenShift.<br/>Set to `false` if Kubernetes                                                                                                                                                                  | `false`                                                     |          |

> [!NOTE]
> Agent deployment requires 1 replica because only 1 agent with the same id must be connected to NeoLoad Web at a time. Having multiple replicas will introduce concurrency issues.

### Agent advanced configuration

| Parameter                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Default                                                                                                                                 |
|----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `agent.name`                           | Agent friendly name that will be displayed in NeoLoad Web                                                                                                                                                                                        | default name is a combination of namespace and release name                                                                             |
| `agent.uuid`                           | Agent UUID to uniquely identify the agent in NeoLoad Web.<br/>It is recommended not to define it in order to leave the generated value. Only useful if you want to uninstall/re-install the release and appear in NeoLoad Web as the same agent. | id is generated at installation (and kept at upgrade)                                                                                   |
| `image.agent.repository`               | The agent image repository to pull from                                                                                                                                                                                                          | `neotys/neoload-web-dynamic-infrastructure-agent`                                                                                       |
| `image.agent.tag`                      | The agent image tag                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | See appVersion in [Chart.yaml](./Chart.yaml)                                                                                            |
| `image.agent.pullPolicy`               | The agent image pull policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `IfNotPresent`                                                                                                                          |
| `image.agent.imagePullSecrets`         | Override the pull secret(s) of the agent container. When set, this takes precedence over `registryKey`.                                                                                                                                          | By default, if `registryKey` is configured, the agent uses the generated `registryKey` secret; otherwise, no `imagePullSecrets` are set |
| `neoload.labels.agent`                 | Add labels to agent resources e.g. `key: value`.                                                                                                                                                                                                 | `{}`                                                                                                                                    |
| `neoload.annotations.deployment.agent` | Add annotations to agent deployment e.g. `key: value`.                                                                                                                                                                                           | `{}`                                                                                                                                    |
| `neoload.annotations.pod.agent`        | Add annotations to agent pod e.g. `key: value`.                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `{}`                                                                                                                                    |

### Docker registry (optional)

Configure a private docker registry to pull the docker images of the Controller and Load generator.\
The Docker image names and pull secret are defined in NeoLoad Web's infrastructure provider.

| Parameter              | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default |
|------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `registryKey.enabled`  | Enable registry key to pull docker images                                                                                                                        | `false` |
| `registryKey.registry` | Docker registry URL e.g. `docker.io`                                                                                                                             |         |
| `registryKey.username` | User name of docker registry                                                                                                                                     |         |
| `registryKey.password` | Password name of docker registry<br/>Can be a dockerHub PAT.<br/>Recommended to set this sensitive information with commandline `--set registryKey.password=PWD` |         |

### Proxy configuration (optional)

Configure proxy settings for the agent. If enabled, you must provide a host and port.
To set credentials, recommended way would be to create a secret prior to installing this helm chart, and referring to it via secret name and key. 
You can pass it as values otherwise.

| Parameter                    | Description                                                         | Default |  Required  |
|------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|:----------:|
| `proxy.enabled`              | Enable proxy configuration for the agent                            | `false` |            |
| `proxy.host`                 | Proxy server host (e.g., `proxy.example.com`)                       |         | if enabled |
| `proxy.port`                 | Proxy server port (e.g., `8080`)                                    |         | if enabled |
| `proxy.user.value`           | Proxy username in plain text.                                       |         |            |
| `proxy.user.secretName`      | Name of an existing Kubernetes secret containing the proxy username |         |            |
| `proxy.user.secretKey`       | Key in the secret containing the proxy username                     |         |            |
| `proxy.password.value`       | Proxy password in plain text.                                       |         |            |
| `proxy.password.secretName`  | Name of an existing Kubernetes secret containing the proxy password |         |            |
| `proxy.password.secretKey`   | Key in the secret containing the proxy password                     |         |            |


## Details

This chart creates:
 1. A namespace called `my-namespace`
 2. A role called `my-release-role` with the following rules:
    ``` yaml
    rules:
    - apiGroups: [ "apps", "extensions" ]
      resources: ["deployments", "replicasets"]
      verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "patch", "delete"]
    - apiGroups: [ "" ]
      resources: ["pods", "events"]
      verbs: ["get", "list"]
    - apiGroups: [ "" ]
      resources: ["replicationcontrollers"]
      verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "patch", "delete"]
    ```
 3. A role binding called `my-release-rolebinding`
 4. A service account called `my-release-sa`
 5. A config map for agent environment variables called `my-release-nlweb-dynamic-infrastructure-agent-config`
 6. A secret to store NeoLoad Web long-term token `my-release-nlweb-dynamic-infrastructure-nlweb-secrets`
 7. A deployment for the agent pod called `my-release-nlweb-dynamic-infrastructure-agent`

Commit message:

Add possibility to pass environment variables to agent deployment
Change-Id: Ia067f6e3214993dec9fffb7178e71399742eebd5

Readme.md, after:


# NeoLoad Web dynamic infrastructure agent

## Introduction

This Helm chart enables performance engineers to automatically deploy load testing infrastructure on a Kubernetes cluster through NeoLoad Web.
It provisions the required user credentials and deploys an agent that connects your cluster to NeoLoad Web's Dynamic Infrastructure feature.

For a complete overview of all resources created in your cluster, see the [Details](#details) section.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Two versions of this chart are available:
>
> - **v1.x (Latest)** — Deploys an agent that communicates with NeoLoad Web. This version is more secure as it uses outbound-only connections. **Recommended for environments with strict security requirements.**
> - **v0.x** — Requires direct inbound API access to the cluster from NeoLoad Web. A simpler setup that works well when inbound access is acceptable. To migrate from v0.x to v1.x, see the [Migration guide](doc/MIGRATION_GUIDE_V0_TO_V1.md). To install v0.x, see the [v0.x Readme](https://github.com/Neotys-Labs/helm-dynamic-infrastructure/blob/stable/v0_x/Readme.md).

## Prerequisites

- A running [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster (1.9.0 - 1.30.0)
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) CLI  (3.2+)


## Installation

### 1. Add the NeoLoad chart repository or update it if you already had it registered

```bash		
helm repo add NeoLoad https://helm.prod.neotys.com/stable/
```

```bash		
helm repo update
```

### 2. Download and set up your **[values-custom.yaml](/values-custom.yaml)** file

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Neotys-Labs/helm-dynamic-infrastructure/master/values-custom.yaml
``` 
Refer to the [Configuration](#Configuration) section for configuration options.

### 3. Install

```bash		
helm install my-release NeoLoad/nlweb-dynamic-infrastructure --create-namespace -n my-namespace -f ./values-custom.yaml --set agent.neoloadWebApiToken=YOUR_NEOLOAD_WEB_LONG_TERM_TOKEN
```

## Uninstall

To uninstall the `my-release` deployment:

```bash
$ helm uninstall my-release -n my-namespace
```

## Configuration

Update `values-custom.yaml` file according to your needs.

### Agent configuration

| Parameter                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Default                                                     | Required |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|:--------:|
| `agent.neoloadWebApiToken` | NeoLoad Web long-term token.<br/>Recommended to set this sensitive information with commandline `--set agent.neoloadWebApiToken=TOKEN`                                                                                                           |                                                             |    ✅     |
| `agent.neoloadWebApiUrl`   | The URL to NeoLoad Web API (API V3, not API V4).<br/>By default SaaS US URL is provided; verify that it matches your NeoLoad Web environment and override it if your instance uses a different endpoint.                                         | https://neoload-api.saas.neotys.com                         |          |
| `agent.isOpenShiftCluster` | Set to `true` if current cluster is OpenShift.<br/>Set to `false` if Kubernetes                                                                                                                                                                  | `false`                                                     |          |

> [!NOTE]
> Agent deployment requires 1 replica because only 1 agent with the same id must be connected to NeoLoad Web at a time. Having multiple replicas will introduce concurrency issues.

### Agent advanced configuration

| Parameter                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Default                                                                                                                                 |
|----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `agent.name`                           | Agent friendly name that will be displayed in NeoLoad Web                                                                                                                                                                                        | default name is a combination of namespace and release name                                                                             |
| `agent.uuid`                           | Agent UUID to uniquely identify the agent in NeoLoad Web.<br/>It is recommended not to define it in order to leave the generated value. Only useful if you want to uninstall/re-install the release and appear in NeoLoad Web as the same agent. | id is generated at installation (and kept at upgrade)                                                                                   |
| `agent.env`                            | Custom environment variables to add to the agent deployment.<br/>Define as a map of key-value pairs e.g. `VAR: "value"`.                                                                                                                         | `{}`                                                                                                                                    |
| `image.agent.repository`               | The agent image repository to pull from                                                                                                                                                                                                          | `neotys/neoload-web-dynamic-infrastructure-agent`                                                                                       |
| `image.agent.tag`                      | The agent image tag                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | See appVersion in [Chart.yaml](./Chart.yaml)                                                                                            |
| `image.agent.pullPolicy`               | The agent image pull policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `IfNotPresent`                                                                                                                          |
| `image.agent.imagePullSecrets`         | Override the pull secret(s) of the agent container. When set, this takes precedence over `registryKey`.                                                                                                                                          | By default, if `registryKey` is configured, the agent uses the generated `registryKey` secret; otherwise, no `imagePullSecrets` are set |
| `neoload.labels.agent`                 | Add labels to agent resources e.g. `key: value`.                                                                                                                                                                                                 | `{}`                                                                                                                                    |
| `neoload.annotations.deployment.agent` | Add annotations to agent deployment e.g. `key: value`.                                                                                                                                                                                           | `{}`                                                                                                                                    |
| `neoload.annotations.pod.agent`        | Add annotations to agent pod e.g. `key: value`.                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `{}`                                                                                                                                    |

### Docker registry (optional)

Configure a private docker registry to pull the docker images of the Controller and Load generator.\
The Docker image names and pull secret are defined in NeoLoad Web's infrastructure provider.

| Parameter              | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default |
|------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `registryKey.enabled`  | Enable registry key to pull docker images                                                                                                                        | `false` |
| `registryKey.registry` | Docker registry URL e.g. `docker.io`                                                                                                                             |         |
| `registryKey.username` | User name of docker registry                                                                                                                                     |         |
| `registryKey.password` | Password name of docker registry<br/>Can be a dockerHub PAT.<br/>Recommended to set this sensitive information with commandline `--set registryKey.password=PWD` |         |

### Proxy configuration (optional)

Configure proxy settings for the agent. If enabled, you must provide a host and port.
To set credentials, recommended way would be to create a secret prior to installing this helm chart, and referring to it via secret name and key. 
You can pass it as values otherwise.

| Parameter                    | Description                                                         | Default |  Required  |
|------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|:----------:|
| `proxy.enabled`              | Enable proxy configuration for the agent                            | `false` |            |
| `proxy.host`                 | Proxy server host (e.g., `proxy.example.com`)                       |         | if enabled |
| `proxy.port`                 | Proxy server port (e.g., `8080`)                                    |         | if enabled |
| `proxy.user.value`           | Proxy username in plain text.                                       |         |            |
| `proxy.user.secretName`      | Name of an existing Kubernetes secret containing the proxy username |         |            |
| `proxy.user.secretKey`       | Key in the secret containing the proxy username                     |         |            |
| `proxy.password.value`       | Proxy password in plain text.                                       |         |            |
| `proxy.password.secretName`  | Name of an existing Kubernetes secret containing the proxy password |         |            |
| `proxy.password.secretKey`   | Key in the secret containing the proxy password                     |         |            |


## Details

This chart creates:
 1. A namespace called `my-namespace`
 2. A role called `my-release-role` with the following rules:
    ``` yaml
    rules:
    - apiGroups: [ "apps", "extensions" ]
      resources: ["deployments", "replicasets"]
      verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "patch", "delete"]
    - apiGroups: [ "" ]
      resources: ["pods", "events"]
      verbs: ["get", "list"]
    - apiGroups: [ "" ]
      resources: ["replicationcontrollers"]
      verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "patch", "delete"]
    ```
 3. A role binding called `my-release-rolebinding`
 4. A service account called `my-release-sa`
 5. A config map for agent environment variables called `my-release-nlweb-dynamic-infrastructure-agent-config`
 6. A secret to store NeoLoad Web long-term token `my-release-nlweb-dynamic-infrastructure-nlweb-secrets`
 7. A deployment for the agent pod called `my-release-nlweb-dynamic-infrastructure-agent`
